So, guys, now let us discuss the configuration of the system with respect to which we will going to
discuss the example of multi-level purging.
So let us say that our system has the following configuration.
Suppose the virtual addresses that is generated by the CPU is it which long?
And let us suppose that the size of page is four byte.
So it also means that the size of frame of a physical memory is also four bytes.
Let's say that the total main memory that our system has is sixty four bytes.
So how many frames into which this main memory is divided into simply six to four divided by four is
equal to sixteen frames.
Right.
And let us assume that the size of each page table entry is just one byte.
So this is the configuration that our system has now.
We can calculate certain parameters based on the configuration of a system.
For example, the size of total which will address the space of a process, is two hundred and fifty
six bytes.
Right.
And frame size is equal to the size, which is four bytes, which will address composition, will going
to be six plus two bits.
Now why it is like that.
Because the frame size is four bytes.
It means that in one frame of mind memory there are four physical addresses.
Therefore you need to in order to uniquely identify a physical address within a frame of a main memory.
Therefore, what religious composition needs to be exploited as six plus two bits because two is an
offset within a frame.
Now, in multilevel packaging, the size of the base table has to be equal to the size of a page, which
is four bytes.
So it is compulsory that in multilevel paging scheme, the size of the peace table has been reduced
and has been made fixed of the size of a page, which is four bytes.
Now, number of entries in a page table was going to be for Y because size of each entry of the table
is one byte and the size of a page table is four bytes.
So clearly the number of entries in a page table will going to be four.
Divided by one is equal to four.
Now a number of books required to index into a single page table will going to be two, right?
Because there are four entries on the page table.
So you need two bits in order to index an entry into a page table.
Now that you need to as an index into the page table, the six bits, that is these six words, these
six words are divided into three levels of indexing.
The first two is used to index into the first level of being stable.
But next, toolbox is used to index into second level table and the next two bits are used to index
into third level page table.
And physical addresses is six bits, right, to six births, because we have taken the size of the main
mammary as 60 four bites.
So to restore the power.
Six is equal to 64.
So does in our example.
We need to map it with the virtual address to six.
But physical address.
So now let us see the above configuration pictorially and the next slide.
So you can see in this diagram, a lot of things are going on.
So you can see that a CPU generates an eight, but which will address and you can see that the last
two bits of this virtual address are dedicated to be used as an offset, whereas the first six words
are used as an indexing to the page tables.
The first six bits of these tables, in turn, is divided into three sets of two bits each.
We shall discuss that, how each of these set of foubert each is used as an indexing into multilevel
paging.
Now you can see that on this slide you can see seven panes tables.
This is a top level page table and you can see that the number of entries in each of these pages table
is four.
Now you can see that there is a number which is written against each page table in this slide, right?
So this is actually the physical address in the main memory at which this table is loaded.
So you can see that this table p0 is loaded at physical address party in the main memory.
So in the main memory, you can assume that in this frame, 10 top level pays No.
Zero is loaded.
Similarly, Piers, no one thought one is loaded at physical address aid in main memory, so here is
no one, but one is loaded in frame number two.
So since there are seven paid stable's in use, you can see that the frames of the physical memory which
are in yellow color, are those frames which are loaded with plates table.
So our very first objective that is is split a large piece table into smaller pieces table has been
achieved and you can see that beds, tables can be loaded in any available frame number in memory.
So you can see that beds, tables are actually scattered throughout the main memory.
There is no need to reserve one big chunk of physical memory in order to load.
All the peace tables together.
Now, coming to the page table entry, you can see that second column of the peace table actually shows
the physical address, that is the address in the main memory at which the next level peace table is
installed.
So in this example, you can see that because we have an entry number eight in this column of page table,
it means that the next level peace table, which is P1 dot one, is loaded at physical address aid in
physical memory.
Similarly, Penn State will be one Dautry is lauded as physical address 24 in main memory.
Because top level pasodoble has an entry 24 in its second index.
Similarly, coming to the number one doctor, you can see that at physical at the trial, in the main
memory, the next level, that is the second level, stable people two is loaded.
Now, the final level of this hierarchy is actually the second level of beds, tables, now, these
tables actually stools the frame number into which the data of our interest is located.
Now, let us see how multilabel page is done.